all right thanks everyone it's great to
be here again this year sorry for the
change in the schedule I'm pretty sick
and so I might cough during this
presentation so I apologize ahead of
time if that happens it's great to be
here at DEFCON 2 it's fantastic to see
that our communities have remained very
close together that we continue to grow
together that every day there's new
exciting projects using IP FS or
aetherium or both this year we have
three presentations for you today I will
talk about IP FS and give some ecosystem
news
daveed will % on lip therapy and DEF p2p
family will talk about distributed
applications and orbit and we also have
two others in our team Jeremy who works
in Go ipfs and Jesse who works on on
file coin find us during the breaks and
we can answer any questions you might
have about how ipfs works how you can
use it and how we can help you ad
there's little time this year so I can't
give us long of an intro into ipfs as I
normally do and so these talks can give
you the in-depth perspective into what
IP FS is how it works and all that kind
of stuff I'll give a super short intro
instead and that is that that the
content how we move content and how we
address content in the Internet today
has a lot of problems there are problems
of inefficiency bad security models
dependence and massive centralized
systems reliance on the backbone
censorship and more ipfs the
interplanetary file system is a new
paradigm for moving around data and
addressing content on the Internet it is
a distributed decentralized peer-to-peer
versioned cryptographically secure
verifiable file system a lot of words
their IP FS is making the web faster
safer and more open ipfs addresses all
content by cryptographic hash which the
central Isis and shifts the power
dynamics of the web content can be
linked to and retrieved without
appealing to specific intermediaries
you don't have to rely on huge
centralized silos anymore you can link
and together and whoever has a Content
can serve it to anybody else this might
be a laptop right next to you it might
be somebody else on the planet you don't
have to wait until one web server dies
out ipfs also empowers blockchains to
record timestamp and address massive
amounts of data off chain this preserves
the security guarantees because it is
just hash linking it can also be used to
build block chains themselves but that
is a much longer story maybe someday I
will give a talk on that the technical
intro is that ipfs is a protocol stack
it's a set of implementations and a
project to build a merkel graph based
web content is addressed and linked
together using cryptographic hashing
which gives ipfs the same fantastic
immutability and authentication
properties that etherium bitcoin get
BitTorrent and all these other systems
have beyond that ipfs as a data model
that allows these data structures to be
linked together making all of them more
powerful as their address from one to
another imagine being able to link from
a and a theorem transaction directly
into a git commit ipfs is a protocol
stack it has a data model as I described
and the nodes connect using a
peer-to-peer network stack that we call
lib p2p this is a very modular library
and the vide we'll talk more about it
later today ipfs is also self describing
it is a future-proof protocol it is
built on UNIX principles and it's highly
modular all of its components from
transports connectivity protocols
content representation formats file
chunker's file layouts all of these
things are pluggable extensible and
replaceable ipfs is an ambitious project
it has lots of capabilities and features
and many more are coming but it is also
pragmatic we build in units of feature
completeness so that people can use it
to solve big problems today I have a
number of ecosystem news for you today
the first is that ipfs has two
implementations now one in go and one in
JavaScript over the last year since
DEFCON we ship the the we ship the oh
four series of Go ipfs that brought tons
of new features bug fixes and so on
it is seeming ahead with a large
ambitious roadmap and though it's not at
1.0 yet it is far more stable than then
you tried it before and lots of people
are having a great time with it in fact
yesterday we released Oh for three so we
encourage all of you to update if you're
using IP FS and thank you to all of you
who contributed I know there's a lot of
people that will be watching this that
have contributed to this to this release
the important thing about JSI PFS is
that before with just the go
implementation people had a cavitation
of adopting a new protocol for the web
before browsers have changed to adopt it
how could you build a website on a new
protocol if people would have to install
something or an extension or something
like that so we decided to build a full
IP FS implementation in JavaScript and
make it run entirely on the browser this
is a huge undertaking and it is very
powerful it means that web application
developers can start building on ipfs
without having to rely on on any browser
change or any installation and so you
can have a full distributed
decentralized web application today with
stock browsers
another major bit of news is that
dynamic content is finally here with
ipfs previously people have remarked
that well ipfs is great for static
content they couldn't see how to build
dynamic real-time web applications the
decentralized distributed architecture
just clog things up so we decided to
take some time this year to implement
the pieces needed on top of IP FS to
build these kinds of applications this
means a low latency pub/sub protocol and
a set of libraries for storing and
retrieving data that is designed to
converge this means CRT T's so we set
the challenge of taking these
distributed data struck distributed data
model there we go
that was having trouble changing it and
we set a great challenge for this we
wanted to build a distributed
peer-to-peer chat client capable of
working in a local area network without
having to connect to the backbone and
that's horbet you'll hear about it later
today another bit of news is that many
of our probe are sub projects have
graduated into their own full-fledged
efforts one of them is multi formats
this is a self describing set of
protocols that are verifiable avoid data
lock-in and so on you may be familiar
with multi hash this allows you to
multiplex many different kinds of hash
functions multi ad or multi key there's
a bunch of others these are headed for
standardization at the IETF and lots of
other groups are already depending on
them so we decided to create like its
own Organization for that another of
these projects is lit p2p a modular
peer-to-peer library again the vide will
will describe more the last one is IPL
being a thin waste format for
representing merkel chain data
structures IPL d is the secret sauce of
ipfs it makes the merkel forest possible
it makes it possible for you to link
from one data structure to another
what's really interesting for the
etherium community on this is that soon
not yet but soon we will have the
ability to natively address aetherium
blocks in ipfs that means you can take a
theorem hashes and address a block look
into transactions and look into the
entire state tree in ipfs native paths
without having to run
and etherium node or EMA theorem light
client this is great this is great for
aetherium because it extends the reach
to all other applications that run ipfs
you can hand web applications or
reference and they can look it up with
an IP FS it's also great for archiving
because a lot of tools for archival are
being constructed around the ipfs
ecosystem a last bit of news here is
that the I profess project has been
doing a lot of work on package
management IP FS started its life as a
data set package manager so it is
naturally very useful for this the
community has been putting package
managers like apt pac-man Nix npm pi PI
and so on on ipfs there's really good
proofs of concept but some none of them
are quite usable yet for production so
more work remains to be done we'll be
working on that over the coming months
what what has happened though is that we
are able to build new package managers
from the scratch directly an IP FS and
we have our own GX that we use for go
so with GX we can package manage go
packages with hashes and so like now you
can know that the code is not going to
change underneath you it's an important
improvement there are other package
managers built on top of IP FS spore and
apple or two that come to mind
dapple is a package manager for
aetherium dot cool so i wanted to talk a
little bit about some of the users that
are using IP FS and if you're them
together take a sip of water
this is report a decentralized identity
service it is built on top of IP FS and
aetherium this is a CAPTCHA a
decentralized social network it is built
on aetherium and ipfs this is digits a
an asset exchange it is built with a
theorem and ipfs this is in fora an
infrastructure system for scaling
aetherium nodes and ipfs nodes again at
3 a.m. and IP of s this is you Joe music
again using IP FS and a theorem this is
Eris industries who is building a smart
contracts platform again using etherium
and ipfs this is block write a chain of
provenance solution for four storage
containers that is using you guessed it
a theorem and ipfs the gist of this is
that oh and this is balance 3 a smart
contract powered triple entry accounting
system I love that phrase the gist of
this is that all of these applications
are leveraging our technologies combined
they're better together we are creating
a lot of value individually but when you
put these platforms together magic
happens and all of these applications
are testament to that we see more
happening every day and we expect that
more will come so we invite the entire
theorem community to collaborate more
tightly in all these things and let us
know how we can help how we can help
support some of your use cases if you're
building on on ipfs and aetherium we'd
love to hear you out and see how we can
help the last thing i want to switch
gears for a moment and address one of
the longest standing problems in the
ipfs ecosystem and that's news on file
coin so the main problem our aetherium
users have had is that ipfs does not on
its own cost data to be backed up by the
network this is by design as backing
data up in the long term is an expensive
operation that needs to be compensated
or incentivized with some sort of value
as you may know we separated that layer
of behavior into its own protocol called
Falcon a cryptocurrency file storage
network there are a lot of reasons for
this
one of them is that if you use IP FS
just as a browser and you have to store
other people's data that
be as good as if you can just use it
natively right a lot of peer-to-peer
systems failed because they try to force
the system to do both of the same time
so at the beginning our intention was to
build just enough of ipfs to build fail
coin and so we we race to build up your
files we shipped it out and we were
considering shifting our gears or
falkland but three things change their
minds the first was that there was close
to no market for distributed data
storage I run that time this was like
mid 2015 a theorem and I confess were
both young projects decentralized apps
were just beginning and pretty much the
cloud satisfied everyone's needs stone
second we knew that sophisticated data
storage needs would require blockchain
smart contracts because many
applications require a lot more looking
into who is storing the data and why the
third thing that happened is that we had
a sudden and intense adoption of ipfs
much greater than we expected this
surprised us
thousand of users came wanting new
features and bug fixes hundreds of
developers showed up started helping us
out in the code they needed review they
needed direction and so on so we decided
to double down on IP FS and push back
going to a later date now ipfs has been
developed the e vm has been battle
tested and proven and now is the time
for far coin the markets of the
centralized data storage is emerging so
unlike you can think of a point as
Amazon s3 meets etherium powered by IP
FS and unlike other alternatives falcone
is a blockchain protocol designed to do
for storage what bitcoin did for hashing
this is the hash raid of Bitcoin it's an
absurd amount of power this is like EXA
hashes now I believe it's a ridiculous
amount of computational power the
world's top 500 supercomputers put
together we're left in the dust in like
2013 somewhere way before the knee of
the curve and then we have this
explosion every time I look at this
graph I'm just astonished by the degree
of power dedicated to this nowadays I
think it's using more power than some
many
small Nations so imagine if you could
create a network with that kind of an
incentive structure for data storage so
you could summon this amount of disks to
show up in the network exabytes of
storage add it to the network you know
over the over what like five you know
two years of massive growth and you know
six years I guess of like proving it out
that is what it's going to make
distributed decentralized storage
platforms capable of competing with the
cloud because at the end of the day you
don't want to sort your data in
someone's laptop you want to store it in
mines like this and some something
resembling the data centers of today
you want to use laptops for fast
efficient delivery but ultimately you
want serious operations the competition
between the distributed storage networks
it's kind of interesting because the
reality is that we should be competing
with a cloud the cloud is where everyone
is throwing their data we should be
working together to defeat that so at
its most basic file coin looks like this
miners rent their hard drives and earn a
point for it they can then exchange that
for dollars Bitcoin ether you on
whatever users which could be people or
applications or contracts would then buy
file coin and spend it to hire the
network to store data the first version
of the falcone paper I published in 2014
describes the protocol with a core
mining function which uses a consensus
building proof either a proof of work or
potentially proof of sake and then a
proof over to ability it also talks
about a secondary market and that
secondary market though it features a
little bit not too much and the paper is
very important because you can use it to
do low latency delivery using payment
channels or state channels I like the
Lightning Network right so you can
imagine this chain continuing to mind a
lot of nodes have a lot of storage and
they can do state channels in this the
cool thing though is that now we can add
a a proper contract engine on file coin
like I profess has had a lot of
improvements but the thing that is going
to set these storage networks apart from
the cloud is things like this being able
to do with bonding and collateral as
victory from forum described
being able to do reputation thresholds
being able to do identity selecting
based on the identity of the people that
are storing being able to do
geopolitical bounds when you are forced
to store certain data within a certain
nation all of these things can be
represented as contracts when when you
have a large network like this and this
is pretty important for making any of
these platforms capable of working so
over the last couple of years there's
been an enormous amount of exploration
in this there's if your swarm is doing
awesome work on this direction so
aasaiya it is another decentralized
distributed storage platform and there's
a bunch of others in the space as well
we've done some work as well and there's
there's been two years since 2014 of
great academic research into proofs of
richer ability with new schemes coming
out and a lot of research into how to do
smart contracts in a much safer way we
feel a lot more comfortable trying to do
data contracts today than we were two
years ago so the design space for
Falcone is an interesting one we
evaluated a lot of systems and we
thought about what how to do this
construction we could potentially build
on top of Bitcoin we could potentially
the load on top of the theorem and so on
and consistently across all the vectors
we measured a theorem demonstrated
greater technology and a much more
effective development community we have
some requirements that the theorem
doesn't yet meet for example we need a
really fast volume and speed of
transactions you know a gig gig of
transactions per second that would be
insane we want to get there eventually
we also need this connected operation
this means being able to operate in a
distributed network where you're
disconnected from the backbone so if
your city gets disconnected from the
rest of the world your applications
shouldn't stop like imagine if you know
with you your you go somewhere traveling
and then you lose connectivity to the
backbone and then nothing works like
that's just untenable so we are building
Falcone in the direction of being able
to work in this direction so these two
things are not showstoppers though
because the etherium community is also
very interested in this there's a lot of
work being directed towards charting and
these efforts and we think that we can
solve these problems together so I'm
excited to announce that we've chosen
the EVM as our contract engine
like beyond this we had two options
either we fork aetherium and build our
own network and this means working
together on a number of problems and
code bases and generally sharing
strategies but basically building two
different networks and the benefit of
that is we're not blocking scalability
and so on and we can proceed in that
direction
or the alternative is with virtualized
file coin on top of the etherium
blockchain this means working together
directly on critical problems and code
bases it means not having to build a
large proof-of-work network to secure a
Falco Network it means enabling Falcone
to serve etherium contracts natively
directly in the etherion blockchain
hopefully if your iam could adopt the
sharding in this connected operation
functionality we need or will have to
eventually migrate off the network to be
able to satisfy those constraints but
fortunately that's not a decision we
have to make for any year at least
potentially more an important deciding
factor for us in this was the theorem
community has been through tremendous
challenges this year we've we've watched
kind of from the sidelines as a
different community yes lots of things
happen and I want to remark that unlike
other communities if theorem has
demonstrated a very effective
improvement and problem-solving ethos
you are not afraid to come together and
solve problems in the history of
computing nobody has gotten everything
right from the beginning and so the
teams that are effective at groups that
change the world are those that are able
to course-correct and reinvent
technology that they ultimately went out
so we're excited to announce that we are
building fail coin as a virtual chain
directly on top of aetherium
and it it will be accessible natively to
contracts in the etherium network
the third thing I'll announce is that we
are planning a Falcone sale at some
point anyway stay tuned that's it for me
see you at the other talks today thanks
for thank you